And okay, that'll just be a very professional. You know people are like how do you live and things like that.  They're taking money from the Russians. And of course the answer is no but I I do this for a living like I speak. I'm I don't have a YouTube channel that where it's you know, I'm Joe Rogan, but I give speeches at universities and things like that. I do a lot of interviews and so we're recording now right on set up cool. Is it possible that you could do a YouTube channel.  Would that work.  If yeah, like I I mean if you introduce me so like I get followers. Yeah, we could do that. I'm all in that that could absolutely happen. Do you want to do that.  Is it something you want to do.  No, I mean this is a big question. So I I came on because I just written a book called permanent record, which is the story of my life because that's what Publishers make you do when you're writing your first book, but it's more than that because I didn't just want to talk about me. It's actually about the changing of Technology. And the changing of government in this sort of post 9/11 era. [41m[37mWhich in our Our Generation just sort of happened to be growing up during and I was at the CIA in the NSA and all this stuff. [0mBut the day that the book came out the government hit me with a lawsuit and they hit the publisher of the books with a with a lawsuit. Because they don't want to see books like this get ridden. They especially don't want to see books like this get red. And so the big thing was, you know, we didn't know where this was going. We didn't know it was going to happen and my publisher of course wanted me very badly to let people know this book existed in case the government leaned hard and harder and harder. We didn't know where where that's going on government is still pursuing that case quite strongly. They're more focused on the financial censorship side of it basically taking any money that I made from it kind of as a warning to the others and getting a legal judgment against the Publishers saying, you know, you can't pay this guy that kind of thing. More so than taking the book off the shells, but that's not because they're okay with the book being on the shelves. It's because thankfully we've got the First Amendment and so they can't and that's very rare and and good thing. But anyway in the context of that. They were like, well, what about Joe Rogan.  And you know, I I heard about you at this point, but you know, the only thing that I had really seen that I really understood had familiarity with was like you talking to Bernie Sanders which by the way, I very much appreciated hearing them because a lot of people don't give the guy time to talk. Yeah to hear him in those sound bites. You don't really get an understanding of who we actually is. Right and this is the other thing like they're like, well, you know, you can go on all these, you know major network shows and I I did a couple of them. I did like a morning show. I did Brian Williams. But broadly the media the the sort of more corporatized media as we might say is exactly what you just described right.  They want you to be able to answer and like 8 15 seconds or less. And when we're talking about big massive shifts in society, we're talking about power. We're talking about technology and how it controls and influences us in the future. You can't have a meaningful conversation within those constraints. And so instead these guys all want to say repeat these long discredited sort of criticisms. And you know, I'm sure you'll you'll you'll ask the same thing and that's okay. They're fair questions, but it's like we can't have the conversation if we can't have this space to think right breathe and have that this sort of discussion. [41m[37mSo anyway, they mentioned you and I was like Joe Rogan Joe Rogan Joe Rogan. [0mWhere do I know this name from before Bernie Sanders and I look back through my my Twitter mentions. And the funny thing is your fans have been. Harassing me to death for like the last years wonderful people wonderful people but like go on Joe Rogan go on Joe Rogan and I remember like after I had just made a Twitter account Neil deGrasse. Tyson actually helped me get on Twitter gave me that little initial boost and they said Joe Rogan and so I they like linked you and you know, I Mouse over your name because I use a desktop. I'm not mobile for this because security reasons and it pops up and I get your avatar man and like I have to say your logo Is the worst thing in the world for people who are like trying to be like politically serious and you know, they're worried about the National Security advisor condemning because like this bald guy with this maniacal grin in like the third eye on his forehead and I'm like, oh man that show, you know, that doesn't look good, but it's actually like when you watch, you know, when when you watch what you're doing, it's great stuff man. It's great. But that first impression like I this almost didn't happen. But everybody who has talked to you, you know, everybody who watches your show. I think they get a very different impression and how you're paying it and for me, it's a wonderful thing because nobody understands that better than I do right like the government ran a smear campaign against me endlessly. For six months when I came forward in June of 2013. I know we got way off topic here. I'll get back to it fine. There's no such thing as off topic we could do. Okay, talk about whatever. Great, great. Okay. So for those people first off who have no idea who the hell I am. [41m[37mI'm the guy who's behind the revelations of global Mass surveillance in 2013. [0mI worked for the CIA. I worked for the NSA as a contractor at the NS staff officer. The CIA was undercover working at embassies. But and I talk about the difference between this and a book and contractor and government official and how it's all sort of lost its meaning but I saw something wrong and I saw basically the government was violating the law and what I believe to be the Constitution of the United States and more broadly human rights for everyone in the United States and around the world. There were domestic surveillance programs that were Mass surveillance programs that worked internationally basically everything that they could monitor they were monitoring and this is actually like people isn't that obvious. Isn't that what they're supposed to do and this is weird but the answer actually is no under the framework of our constitution. The government is only supposed to be monitoring people that has an individualized particularized suspicion of wrongdoing for right this is we think about this in the investigative means right like all those TV shows where they're like go and get a warrant. The reason they have to do that like we fought hey a revolution over this, you know, a couple hundred years back is the idea that when we had, you know Kings when we had governments of absolute power, they could simply go in your home and go, you know, he's this guy pot smoker get his diary, you know, whatever it is and just like if you find evidence of crime you march them off to prison and it's all good you found evidence. They're criminal or you didn't find evidence. Well, no harm. No foul. You're just doing what government does. We were trying to build a better system where it went. Yes, the government has extraordinary capabilities, but it only uses them where they're they're necessary right where they're proportionate to the threat that is presented by this person. You know, like we shouldn't be afraid of the person who's got like a baggy of weed in their dresser or something like that. That is not a threat to National Security. That's not threat to Public Safety. But what happened in the wake of 9/11 was a whole bunch of government officials got together behind closed doors. And this was actually LED interestingly Enough by the Vice President of the United States Cheney everybody remembers that name or hopefully I can look that name up Dick Cheney and his personal attorney sort of the juliani of Dick Cheney a guy named David attington. And this lawyer David Addington wrote a secret legal interpretation that no one else was allowed to see it was kept in the vice president safe at the White House. They weren't giving this even when they told people and it was just a couple people in Congress Nancy Pelosi was one of them in a couple of these other folks when they talked to the heads of the agency the NSA and the CIA and the FBI and all this stuff. They told them the White House in the office of legal counsel and you know, this this the president's attorneys all of these guys had decided this would be legal to do. But we can't tell you why we can't show you the legal authorization for you. Just got to take our word for it. And so they did this and this became a mass surveillance program called Stellar Wind, which they said was supposed to monitor the phone calls and internet communications emails and things like that of everybody in the United States and around the world who they could get access to for links Al Qaeda because if you remember in the wake of the September 11th attacks they were saying We thought there could be sleeper cells of al-qaida that was just you know peppered all throughout the country. They're gonna spring up at any moment, of course, like weapons of mass destruction. It just didn't exist. It was all the power grab but on that basis they started doing this in secret and it was completely unconstitutional. It was completely illegal even under the very loose requirements of the Patriot Act. But they did it for so long. That they got comfortable with him. They thought this is you know, this is a really powerful capability. What if we started using this for stuff that was other than terrorism because it wasn't finding any terrorists because there weren't any terrorists in this context that we're looking for them and the ones who where there were terrorists the program wasn't affected because these were guys in Pakistan that weren't using, you know, email and phone calls. They were getting on you know, moped with their cousin who was a courier who's bringing a letter to his guy, you know, who runs the food stand or whatever but bit by bit over time this grew and grew and grew and they were scandals and if you want to drill down in these later, I'll go into him. But what happened was step by step by step our constitutional rights were changed. And we weren't allowed to know it. We were never granted a vote on it. And even the many members of Congress right 535 in the United States. They were prohibited from knowing this and instead. They told only a few select people and the original case that were only eight members of Congress called the gang of eight who knew about this. Then there were the people on the intelligence committees both in the Senate and the house who were told about this, but they were only told partially about it. They weren't told the full scope of it. And now that they have been told about it because they had security clearances and things like that. They weren't allowed telling anybody else even if the objected to it and we had one Senator Ron Wyden. I'm in another one. I believe Tom Udall was the name of them who did object to this and who wanted something to happen. But because they couldn't tell anybody that was having they were sort of doing these weird Lassie barks. To the Press where they were like we have grave concerns about the way these programs are being carried out, but nobody knew what they were talking about and so journalists were like, you know, they've got concerns. What is that.  Lastly.  What are you trying to say Tim.  He's in well, but they were getting it wrong. They couldn't tell what was happening and So what had happened was that we the American people It's sort of lost our seat at the table of government. We were no longer partnered to government. We had simply become subject to government and I think everybody who's in the world today who is aware of what's going on, whether it's under this Administration the last Administration the one before that right.  They have seen a constant kind of shift where we have we the public have less say and less influence over the policy of government with each passing year. There's kind of a new class that's being created a government class and and then the public civil class that are held to different standards of behavior. And when we start talking about leaking and whistle blowing this becomes even more clear and so What I did. Was I wanted to clarify that kind of Lassie Mark right.  I just wanted everybody to know what was going on. I didn't want to say the government can't do this. I didn't want to say this is how you guys have to live because that's not for me to say but I do believe that everybody in the United States and more broadly people in the world who are having the rights violated by a government should have at least understanding how that is happening what the authorities sort of the policies and programs that are enabling that or so that they can protest them so that they can cast a vote about them so that they can say you know, what you guys say, this is okay, but I disagree this is not okay. I object and I want things to change and so I gathered evidence of what I believe to be criminal or unconstitutional activity in the part of the government and I gave this to journalists right now I gave this to journalists. Under a very strict condition here, which was that they published no story in this Archive of information simply because it was interesting. Right.  No clickbait, not anything just because they thought it would make news it would get them Awards. They would only publish stories that they were willing to make an Institutional judgment a stand behind and this was three different newspapers that it was in the public interest to know. And so then beyond that there was additional because if you could see sort of what I was doing here what had happened what had lettuce into this pitfall. was that the system of checks and balances that supposed to self-regulate our government had failed the courts had abdicated their role in policing the executive in the Congress because terrorism was such a hot argument at the time. They were worried about being criticized and blamed if something went wrong in attack did go through and they didn't have access to the information that the programs were ineffective. So they were just taking the government's word for it and they didn't want to wait in Congress. Most of them didn't even know right and the ones who did know it was the same thing. They were getting their pockets stuffed with money by the defense contractors that were getting rich for building these systems that were violating the rights of each of us. So they benefited by just saying nothing and then the executive themselves whether we're talking about Bush right whether we're talking about Obama or whether we're talking about Trump now all these guys were okay with a constantly growing surveillance State because they're the ones whose hands were on the lever at the time. They got to aim it they got to use it. If you had a little search box in front of you, they would give you the email history and you know of everybody in the United States anybody want if you could pull up their text messages anybody you want if you could see anything, they've ever typed into that Google search box, right Joe. What is the worst thing you've ever typed into that search box.  That lasts forever right and they have a record of that they can get that from Google. And so this was this was the whole thing. How do we Correct for that so when you have somebody who wants to inform the public of something and we'll get into the proper channels arguments. Later. 